well howdy there internet people that's
bubble again such a day we're going to
talk about rule 303 and military
contractors all over the world just went
oh God
don't worry nobody's getting indicted
rule 303 was a very popular is a very
popular term among a certain subset of
military contractors because of the Iraq
and Afghanistan wars those contractors
came into contact with active-duty
military so the term made its way to
there and then from there it made its
way into law enforcement we need to talk
about that we need to talk about rule
303 and what it means the term
originated with this guy a very long
time ago back when bolt-action rifles
were a standard issue for militaries all
over the world and he's fighting an
insurgency and some of his men get
ambushed and killed later on he finds
some locals that have their personal
effects so he lines him up and shoots
them his commanders did not did not look
favorably on this action he wound up in
court standing tall and at one point
they asked him under what provision what
rule did you feel you had the ability
the authority or the responsibility to
engage in what amounts to a summary
execution and he said a rule 303 there
is no rule 303 doesn't exist
303 was the caliber of his rifle now
what he was saying was I have the means
at hand and therefore the responsibility
to act that's what he was saying now
today as it has made its way through
active duty and then the law enforcement
it has kind of turned into might makes
right that is not what that term meant
he felt he had the duty to act he felt
he had that duty now anytime rule 303 is
cited the action is pretty much always
debatable as to whether or not what was
done was right in this case we now know
because of how insurgencies work this
was a really bad idea this was something
bad to do if these people were just
random people who had found the bodies
and then looted them he killed innocent
people and that would help the
insurgency grow their family members
would probably take up arms the theory
at the time was a little different he
was trying to send a message we know now
that's not how you send it things have
changed some more recent examples of
rule 303 and one that everybody will
know was there was an ambush that had a
bunch of Green Berets in western Africa
everybody knows about it because Trump
dropped the ball when he was making the
phone calls so these guys they get
ambushed they got no air support
they're dark but they are done all of a
sudden to French Mirage 2000s jets
flying in they don't engage the enemy
but they scare him they engage in a show
of force and it worked they didn't have
the duty to intervene but they had the
means at hand and therefore the
responsibility now meanwhile there's a
bunch of contractors working for berry
aviation
sitting in their helicopters they didn't
have the means or they didn't have the
duty but they had the means at hand and
therefore the responsibility now I think
the official story is that some French
helicopters came in and got it and that
may be what happened I'm not sure but
anyway another example that people may
be familiar with you may have saw the
movie tears of the Sun it's about a
military team they go in to get out a
doctor when they get there they find a
bunch of refugees they're gonna get
slaughtered so they make the attempt to
lead them to safety
they had no duty to do that but they had
the means at hand and therefore the
responsibility and that's a highly
fictionalized account of something that
actually happened by the way so that
that's where the term comes from now
how's that relate to that parkland
shooting and the ruling that says law
enforcement has no duty to protect
anybody the officer that waited outside
had no duty to enter well now that I'm
starting to see that patch on law
enforcement I guess we should talk about
that right now there were two types of
cops that sent messages or made comments
after I mentioned that ruling 1 1 type
wanted to talk about the philosophical
aspects of it and we're going to talk
about that but the tone of this video is
not directed to you guys I want you all
to know that there there is a
philosophical discussion to be had there
and it doesn't have to be
confrontational then there was the other
batch of cops that wanted to offer
excuses and we're going to address those
excuses to the philosophical aspect is
that if you create a legal obligation to
act you remove that officers
ability to engage in self-preservation
and assess risk yeah yeah that's what it
means that is exactly what it means
welcome to the profession of arms yeah
that's what it means nobody cares if you
go home at the end of your shift in that
situation nobody cares your duty your
responsibility because you have the
means at hand is to act to protect those
kids your duty is not bounded by risk
your duty is not to get up and go to
work every day the guy at Hardee's has
that duty you chose a different
profession so yeah you you shouldn't
have the ability to assess risk and
determine whether or not you're gonna
act rule 303 you have the means at hand
you have the responsibility to act ok
let's go to the excuses he wasn't paid
enough that man made about a hundred K a
year a hundred thousand here what does
an e2 or e3 in Iraq make about a fifth
of that he got that argument that dies
right there the assignment was taken you
don't get to renegotiate salary once you
start getting shot at or somebody else
starts getting shot at
he had to make a split-second decision
no he did not
no he did not every time he heard a
gunshot and there were a lot of them he
had to make a decision he never found
his courage he never found the courage
to enter now I don't think he should be
called a coward for that simply because
as we've talked about in other videos
most people wouldn't have entered four
percent of the population our real
killers in this situation you could
safely bump the percentage of people
that would act up to ten or fifteen
percent because it's kids people are
more likely to go help kids but still
the majority of people would not have
entered despite what they may say so I
but he's not he was not the average
person he was the guy that were gone to
that school every day ostensibly to
protect those kids when did school
resource officers become a thing and end
up in every school after Columbine it
was a response to that the implied
duties that you are there to protect the
kids nobody really wants you there to
pepper-spray kids they get into a fight
or to tase the autistic kid that that's
having a disciplinary issue teachers and
principals and coaches were able to deal
with that for a very long time without
going to a gun belt not really what
you're there for
then my favorite excuse
well he only had a pistol and the
assailant had a rifle your duty is not
bounded by risk and that argument may
work on the public it might because when
they look at it they see our rifle a big
gun and a pistol a little gun what
caliber is in the mp5 nine-millimeter
right the weapon the mp5 used by most
hostage rescue teams who encounter
rifles all the time they specifically
chose a pistol caliber weapon
yeah the rifle is more powerful so we
can achieve a greater range it can shoot
out to 300 yards great
combats taking place at 7:00 doesn't
matter both of those weapons have the
ability to kill at the range that combat
was taking place that it's not going to
work with anybody that actually knows
about this stuff it's a great it's great
propaganda piece for the public it
doesn't fly more importantly I want to
talk about the message you're sending by
putting that out there the gun makes the
mat right that's what you're saying
don't you think that might be
reinforcing the thought process of those
kids that go into schools and shoot the
place up the gun makes the man
that was a really poorly thought-out
excuse here's the thing you've got to
make a decision if you're a school
resource officer if you are a cop in a
school you need to make the decision
are you expendable if not quit because
nobody cares if you go home at the end
of your shift
after a school shooting they care about
the students that's it you chose to join
the profession of arms the likelihood of
dying from a bullet that's part of it
that is part of it and you chose the one
assignment in law enforcement where
literally nobody cares about your life
you know most of them don't want to say
that and yeah they would prefer that you
survive but they don't care it doesn't
matter so you still want to wear that
patch
look
but this is something that despite my
current demeanor you need to think about
seriously if you cannot truly envision
yourself laying down your life to
protect those kids you need to get a
different assignment anyway it's just
the fault y'all uh y'all have a good day